# Domain Crawler and Comparison Tool

This repository contains Python scripts to crawl and compare a website for changes.

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Installing Python](#installing-python)
  - [Installing Requirements](#installing-requirements)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Why Compare Websites?](#why-compare-websites)

## Overview

1. `capture.py` - A web crawler that goes through all the pages of a given domain and exports the URLs, status codes, page sizes, and heights into both `.txt` and `.html` formats.
2. `compare.py` - A script that takes two `.txt` files (generated by `crawl_website.py`), representing the old and new versions of a website, and compares them side by side. It exports the differences into an HTML file, highlighting the discrepancies.

## Installation

### Installing Python

- **Windows:** Download the installer from [Python's official site](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/) and follow the installation steps. Make sure to check the "Add Python to PATH" checkbox during installation.
  
- **macOS:** Python comes pre-installed on macOS, but you can also download the latest version from [Python's official site](https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/).

- **Linux:** Use your distribution's package manager to install Python. For example, on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install python3
```

### Installing Requirements

After installing Python, you need to install the required packages. Navigate to the project folder in your terminal and run:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

1. **Crawling a Website:**

```bash
python crawl_website.py
```

Follow the prompts to enter the website domain and select the type of crawl.

2. **Comparing Websites:**

```bash
python compare.py
```

Follow the prompts to select the `.txt` files to be compared.

## Why Compare Websites?

- **Migrating to a New Platform/Host:** Before switching to a new platform or hosting service, you may want to ensure that all URLs from the old platform exist in the new platform and function as expected.

- **Switching WordPress Themes:** A change in theme may result in differences in content display, load times, or even broken links. Comparing the website before and after the switch can highlight these issues.

- **SEO Analysis:** Ensuring that URLs, especially high-traffic ones, remain consistent during any changes can help preserve SEO rankings.

- **Quality Assurance:** Before rolling out a redesigned website, comparing the old and new sites can help identify bugs, missing content, or other issues that need to be addressed.
